readme.md, before:

# Awesome Computability [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> A curated list of odd and fun experiments into computability


## Contents

- [Compilation](#compilation)
- [Turing Completeness](#turing-completeness)


## Compilation

- [DOOM, compiled using only MOV instructions](https://github.com/xoreaxeaxeax/movfuscator/tree/master/validation/doom)
- [A C89 compiler which outputs only printable ASCII bytes, and whose binary is its own documentation](http://tom7.org/abc/)


## Turing Completeness
Systems that can be tricked into turing-completeness

- [Intel Memory Management Unit (MMU) fault handler](https://github.com/jbangert/trapcc)
- [Border Gateway Protocol](https://vanbever.eu/pdfs/vanbever_turing_icnp_2013.pdf)
- [Magic: The Gathering](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.09828)
- [Minecraft](https://gaming.stackexchange.com/questions/20219/is-minecraft-turing-complete)
- [Conway's Game of Life](https://www.ics.uci.edu/~welling/teaching/271fall09/Turing-Machine-Life.pdf)

## Contribute

Contributions welcome! Read the [contribution guidelines](contributing.md) first.


## License

[![CC0](https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/buttons/88x31/svg/cc-zero.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0)

To the extent possible under law, Ethan Bell has waived all copyright and
related or neighboring rights to this work.

Commit message:

Add Rule 110 and MOVfuscator general case

readme.md, after:

# Awesome Computability [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> A curated list of odd and fun experiments into computability


## Contents

- [Compilation](#compilation)
- [Turing Completeness](#turing-completeness)


## Compilation

- [DOOM, compiled using only MOV instructions](https://github.com/xoreaxeaxeax/movfuscator/tree/master/validation/doom)
- [A C89 compiler which outputs only printable ASCII bytes, and whose binary is its own documentation](http://tom7.org/abc/)


## Turing Completeness
Systems that can be tricked into encoding a universal turing machine

- [Intel Memory Management Unit (MMU) fault handler](https://github.com/jbangert/trapcc)
- [Border Gateway Protocol](https://vanbever.eu/pdfs/vanbever_turing_icnp_2013.pdf)
- [Magic: The Gathering](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.09828)
- [Minecraft](https://gaming.stackexchange.com/questions/20219/is-minecraft-turing-complete)
- [Conway's Game of Life](https://www.ics.uci.edu/~welling/teaching/271fall09/Turing-Machine-Life.pdf)
- [Rule 110](http://wpmedia.wolfram.com/uploads/sites/13/2018/02/15-1-1.pdf)
- [x86 MOV with one `jmp start`](http://web.archive.org/web/20190331191157/https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~sd601/papers/mov.pdf)

## Contribute

Contributions welcome! Read the [contribution guidelines](contributing.md) first.


## License

[![CC0](https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/buttons/88x31/svg/cc-zero.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0)

To the extent possible under law, Ethan Bell has waived all copyright and
related or neighboring rights to this work.
